# Introduction

So...why a book?  We have a very well written documentation section.  We also have a nice blog.  A book is just so...old school.  Well, it all goes back to the question we were presented with when we proposed this idea to Paul and our marketing team.  Who is the target audience?  

Anytime you start learning something new you go through a series of steps.  First you start out learning the basics.  This is where you get immeressed in the nomenclature of the product and learn how it works.  Typically a proof of concept is created to see if it works for your basic needs.  After that you move onto a pilot project or a pilot group.  This is where you try to adopt in your day to day life.  Any short-cuts made during the proof of concept phase is removed and it slowly morphs into a working solution.  After that comes adoption, where everyone in the company starts using it.  This is where a bad configuration or two becomes a standard.  And if that bad configuration is allowed to stay a standard then changing it starts to take more and more time.  It goes from one week, to one month, to a year-long project.  

Our UI team is always improving the onboarding process.  Our documentation has a great getting started guide.  But those are targeted at people who are just starting with Octopus Deploy and might be working on a proof of concept.  Rather than worry about that, the intended audience for this book are people who are in the middle of a pilot project using Octopus Deploy or are about to start expanding to the rest of the company.  Our goal of this book is to help you make better decisions on your configuration so Octopus Deploy can scale with your company.  That is not to say experts in Octopus Deploy won't gain anything from it.  

Octopus Deploy is a complex product.  It offers a lot of functionality.  It was designed to help reinforce best deployment practices such as building artifacts once, using the same deployment process for each environment, or restricting access to production machines to name a few.  While at the same time offering users such as yourself the flexibility so Octopus Deploy can meet your companies needs.  But that flexibility is a double-edged sword.  

All the authors of this book are solution architects at Octopus Deploy focused on customer success.  We meet with customers often to discuss what is working for them, what isn’t working for them and offer recommendations.  We have seen...some interesting configurations with Octopus Deploy.  In some cases, bad practices have been going on for so long that changing them takes quite a bit of effort.  That is what drove us to write this book.  We wanted to take all those lessons we have learned and share them with the community.  This way we can help them help themselves.

In this book we are going to start at the very start, setting up your infrastructure and proceed on with configuring environments, lifecycles, retention policies, projects, security, peformance, and maintainability.  It is designed to be read from cover to cover or you can pick your favorite topic out and jump right to it.  