# Introduction
Everyone who works at Octopus Deploy likes to think our product is super easy to use and is very easy to set up.  Underneath the covers, Octopus Deploy is a complex product.  It was designed to help reinforce best deployment practices such as building artifacts once, using the same deployment process for each environment, or restricting access to production machines to name a few.  While at the same time offering users such as yourself the flexibility so Octopus Deploy can meet your companies needs.  However, that flexibility is a double-edged sword.  

All the authors of this book are focused on customer success at Octopus Deploy.  We meet with customers often to discuss what is working for them, what isn’t working for them and offer recommendations.  We have seen...some interesting configurations with Octopus Deploy.  In some cases, bad practices have been going on for so long that changing them takes quite a bit of effort.  That is what drove us to write this book.  We wanted to take all those lessons we have learned and share them with the community.    

Our goal for this book is so you can set up Octopus Deploy to scale as soon as possible. Anytime you start learning something new you go through a series of steps.  First, you start out learning the basics.  Typically a proof of concept is created to see if it works for your basic needs.  After that, you move onto a pilot project or a pilot group and use it day to day.  Any short-cuts made during the proof of concept phase is removed, and it slowly morphs into a working solution.  After that comes adoption, where everyone in the company starts using it, this is where a wrong configuration or two becomes a standard.  Changing standards takes much time as usage grows.  It goes from one week to one month, to a year-long project.  

Our UI team is always improving the onboarding process, and our documentation has a great getting started guide.  However, those items are designed to give you "just the facts."  We want our tool to be flexible to work in your company.  Imagine if getting started guide prompted you anytime you did something "not recommended."  It would get old very quickly.  The intended audience for this book are people who have set up a proof of concept and would like some tips on configuration recommendations.  We want to help you make better decisions on your configuration so Octopus Deploy can scale with your company.  Our hope is anyone with Octopus Deploy experience will gain something from it.  From beginners to experts.  

In this book, we are going to take a fresh install of Octopus Deploy and configure it to scale.  We are going to start at the very start, setting up your infrastructure and proceed on with configuring environments, lifecycles, retention policies, projects, security, performance, and maintainability.  It is designed to be read from cover to cover, or you can pick your favorite topic out and jump right to it.  We don't believe what we recommend will solve every possible scenario you run into in your day to day life.  We want you to use this as a starting guide and adjust them to meet your needs.  

Finally, this book does have much overlap with our getting started guide as well as our on-boarding process.  We are going to assume you have some familiarity with Octopus Deploy.  You know what a tentacle is and you know how to add steps into your deployment process.  If none of those terms are familiar to you or if this is your first time using Octopus Deploy we recommend you read our getting started guide and create a Proof of Concept using our on-boarding process.